## Title

Add ethical hacking and other legal warnings to DDT

## Proposal status

What is the status of this decision?

-   Proposed

## Implementation status

-   Not implemented

## Context

DDT as a Penetration testing toolkit is an educational application, meant to teach users how to perform their own pen testing through university or test their own systems. 

Because of the nature of this type of testing, it is not possible to completely protect or restrict users from misusing the application to harm applications or services, intentionally or unintentionally. 

Without proper warnings, user agreements and disclaimers, a user of this application could accidentally cause harm with serious consequences (legal/business/ethical/environmental etc.) 

Australia has strict Cybersecurity, privacy, and harm prevention laws. Each state and territory enacts different variations of these laws. Combining these legal requirements with best practice principles such as various engineering and information technology governing bodies code of conducts, DDT must ensure that users are aware of the potential dangers, or harms, prior to using the application and specific tools, and users agree to the terms and conditions/user agreement to be able to use the application.

Specifically, users must have permission and authorization from target parties to perform penetration testing using DDT. 

This also serves to remind us as developers of the necessary legal requirements and liabilities for this type of application. Ensuring that we consider all possible scenarios and risks, and minimise possible harm in the broader community. 


## Decision

1. Add warning/welcome message upon opening the application. Users must agree to continue. 

2. Add full length user agreement. This can be integrated into the welcome message as a link/layover/download. This should have a checkbox that must be selected as 'I have read, understood, and agree to the above conditions of use.' before continuing to the application. 

3. Add sticky warning label to entire application, at the bottom of the screen. Providing a link back to the user agreement, or a simple one sentence reminder of the applications terms and conditions of use. 

4. Add specific warning pop-ups when using specific/dangerous tools. Tools such as DDOS tools can shut down servers/systems, a new user without a cybersecurity background to understand the consequences, could cause major harm by accident.


## Consequences

### Positive Consequences

- This is a **necessary** requirement for this application to be launched to any type of user market. 
- Whilst still in development, this will also help protect developers from possible harm during testing. 
- Protects Hardhat as a company as outlines liability.
- Establishes clear and effective boundaries of risk for the application. 
- Educates all users on the possible risk, harm, or outcomes of performing specific types of tests.
- Once implemented, does not require complex logic to maintain. 


### Negative Consequences

- This will require major updates/features to be added to the application. 
- A full user agreement may require additional cost or company expenditure for legal assistance. 
- Hardhat is liable for false or misleading information to users. Information must be accurate, reliable, and specific.