# ADR-0005

## Title

Imrpove Tool Filtering on Tools Page

## Status

-   Proposed

## Implementation status

-   Planning

## Context

The current filtering is designed to provide a user groups of tools without context returning all possible tools based on the filtering selected. If a user is doing web app enumeration, they can choose web app and recieve all tools associated with web apps, but may not be specifically enumeration tools. Or the user may select an enumeration based filter and receive tools designed for active directory in addtition to web app. For a trainging tool, this puts additonal responcibility on the user to already know which tool to use or to understand the most appropriate use of the tools presented by the current filtering. A user undertaking a web app pentest and is currently doing enumeration, should be able to filter to webapp enumeraiton tools.

## Decision

Propose - Additional filter boxes are added to the tools section to help an inexperinced user filter tools more accurately to support task being carried out or learning being undertaken. Propose inclusion of a pentest type (Webapp, internal, external, wifi, etc), pentest phase (recon/enumeration, exploitation), and tool types (Password, scanner, fuzzer, etc). All currently implemented tools and new tools will need additional tags associated to enable accurate filtering.

## Consequences

-   **Positive:**
    -   Improved alignment to penetration testing methodology as tools can be filtered by both, pentest type (Webapp, internal, Wifi, etc.) and penetration testing phase (scanning/enumeration, exploitation etc)
    -	Allows users to align the presented tools to specific penetration test task, limits decision paralasis and confusion due to excessive and uncessary tools being presented.

-   **Negative:**
    -   All currently implemented tools will need to have their tags updated to reflect new filtering.
    -	Tags will need to be uniform and aligned to penetration test type and phase.
    -	Current tag implementation on already implemented tools may need to be modified to handle multiple tags.
    -	Team implementing new tools will need to conduct additional research to understand appropriate use to apply correct tags.

