Title:

Containerising DDT

Status

Approved

Context

Currently, DDT relies on Kali Linux running within as host environments as an environment that allows the application to run and provides the underlying dependencies to allow the execution of the application’s tools. This introduces several limitations in terms of flexibility and accessibility of the application. It could further hamper testing du e to the variability of factors such as OS version and dependencies installation status. Containerisation of DDT, would therefore, remove this variability as all the tools in DDT will have a standard and portable environment to execute in, independently of the setup on the host, making DDT available on various platforms with no additional configuration. For example DDT could run in a container on a Windows or Mac host.

In addition to this, this container may be utilised to deploy a running instance of DDT when our Github Pipeline runs, which may then be used to run DAST testing using tooling such as OWASP ZAP.

Decision

We will build a dockerfile by packaging core tools, configurations, and dependencies that are necessary to allow the application to function. This container may be pushed to Dockerhub to make it more available.

Consequences

The benefits of containerizing DDT are as follows:

Ease of Portability: DDT will be now available for various platforms, and without any host environment requirements, facilitating even more its deployment in local, cloud-based, or development environments.

Predictable and Consistent Test Environment:we maintain a predictable, consistent environment. This minimizes errors and inconsistencies during development and testing.

Scalability for adding new tools: Most importantly, perhaps, containerizing DDT provides one bedrock upon which other security tools can be added or configured, thus broadening the toolkit.
