## Title

Integration of BetterCap into PT-GUI.

## Status

- Proposed

## Context

I have proposed the idea of adding a new module known as BetterCap to DDT for cyber security analysis. It's similar to Metasploit, for wireless and networking issues, including: scanning and hacking for basic Bluetooth devices (smart locks, for example), scanning all types of WiFi and performing deauthentication attacks, performing RSN PMKID based clientless attacks on vulnerable access points, WiFi bruteforcing, fake beacons for rogue access points, Mousejack attacks on 2.4GHZ wifi enabled wireless devices, CAN-Bus (Car electronics) attacks, basic and advanced IPV4/IPV6 attacks (probing, recon, SYN scans, sniffing/fuzzing, spoofing, proxies, basic server hosting for sandboxing, and rogue mysql servers for man in the middle attacks), a MAC changer module, and a GPS module. This will greatly expand the capabilities of DDT in terms of sandboxing networks.
	
## Decision

I have proposed the idea of including BetterCap as base software for Deakin-Detonator-Toolkit, which would open an array of modules to implement, such as Bluetooth Device Discovery, mousejack testing, and scanning for insecure networks.
These modules are listed in the context section (very simply), but can be expanded upon. Existing modules that are implemented in DDT will remain the same, but future modules may utilise this software instead.

## Consequences

What are the consequences of this decision? Consider what will become easier or more difficult because of this change.
-   **Positive:**
	- Opens up an array of new pentesting features for networks, including hardware pentesting for accessories users may have at home to test with.
	- A lot of features may be relevant for certain cybersec classes.
	- Future features may become simpler to implement and teach.
	
-   **Negative:**
	- The software will become larger in size, and a lot of modules may overlap with modules that already exist. 
	- It has many dependencies as well, potentially making compatibility issues more frequent.
	- It would require significant work to actually implement the modules in DDT, and because it's relatively new, there may be vulnerabilities that are not yet known.
	- Understanding how to utilise these modules may be difficult.
